Hey there and welcome back to Dev
Interrupted. I'm your host Andrew
Ziggler
>> and I'm your host Ben Lloyd Pearson and
I'm excited to announce that we're doing
something a little different this week
and starting this week actually and
moving forward. First of all, all these
long form interviews that we publish
every Tuesday, they're not going
anywhere. We have a really wonderful
guest, multiple guests lined up for
upcoming episodes and we've got another
really fantastic one today that we'll
get into in just a moment. However, we
are going to split off our normal news
segment into its own show every week
that'll come out on Friday. So, this
Friday will be the very first iteration
of uh this new show. So, tune in this
Friday to get news updates from us.
We'll even try to bring in some experts
from the field to share really cool
things about what's happening in the
world of AI and engineering
productivity. Those are the changes.
Andrew, what do we have coming up today?
>> If you're an engineer and you've been
online at some point in the last week,
there's a good chance you've seen Ralph
Wiggum take the industry by storm. And
what is Ralph? In its creator's own
words, Ralph is a bash loop. And that
creator is Jeffrey Huntley. Jeffrey has
been pushing one of the simplest, most
provocative ideas and autonomous AI
assisted coding. And Ralph, it turns any
iterative work into something that keeps
fixing, refining, and re-evaluating
until tests pass or succeed. And the
really the brute force effort of this
can't be understated. The amount of work
that Huntley can do with this type of
loop is truly profound. And this work,
it sits at the intersection of practical
workflows, philosophical insights, a
little bit of contrarianism,
and a very bright glimpse about how the
future is going to be built with simple
loops, clear goals, and letting feedback
drive the convergence towards done. And
we've been covering Jeffrey's work here
on Dev Interrupted for the past year.
Today, he's joining us to dive into
Ralph's origin story and what that means
for you now that the cat is out of the
bag. Yeah, and we we discussed quite a
few deep topics. We'll have links to all
this stuff in the the show notes because
there's a lot of reading that I think
goes along with this episode. And one of
the concepts we'll talk about is this uh
new new article from Steve Yaggi called
Gas Town uh which just describes a very
complex system of of effectively
applying the Ralph concept to much
larger challenges. So, I think this is
one of the most interesting discussions
we've ever had at Dev Interrupted and
there's a lot of things for for our
audience to dig into on this one.
>> And of course, all of this content will
be our newsletter and Substack and
LinkedIn. So, be sure to find it, join
the conversation, as well as your fellow
developers as you figure out what all of
this means for us. Now, let's dive into
the interview.
This is so exciting. I'm actually kind
of excited that we also have those lost
tapes because those that was some really
good [ __ ] that you were putting out
there a second ago about
>> those are our secrets now we get
>> Yeah. And now those are like, "Wow,
those are now now only I only I heard
that." Uh, that was a closed room. That
was great. But I So this is just like
overwhelmingly cool, Jeffrey, like to
have you here. To give you some context,
we've been talking about you a lot on
Dev Interrupted for the past year. I
would attribute really what I know about
starting to work with these tools and
even using cursor to you. All of what
I've learned in the last year started
with reading your articles as like the
nucleus of that thought. And so to be
here and be able to kind of chat about
your ideas and how they've evolved is
really exciting for me and because I
watched you bring the the now very
well-known Ralph into the world. Um, and
that's what we want to talk about today
and what it means for developers that
are maybe using their own Ralphs because
I think there's a a huge revolution
happening right now at the top of the
year with all the engineers coming back
from the break with new ideas, Opus 4.5
under their belt and just a lot of
insight from folks like you um out in
the field that are experimenting. So,
we're really stoked to have you here,
but I I want to just also frame the Bash
Loop itself and kind of take a step back
because I want to start there and just
ask you when you brought Ralph into the
world and you named it Ralph, why why
give it that name?
>> Yeah. So, it's February last year,
almost a year ago, and I was doing
specbased uh development. a mate of mine
at GitHub next published actually uh
some research there about two years
prior to that and I remembered that on
like specbas based workflows or LLMs
generating apps this is like the Jupiter
3 days. So I started applying it and
then I started realizing that like I
could probably this could be quite
mechanical like if I take specs and what
how I'm I'm doing things and then I I
got to the point where I was really like
wow there's some pure first principles
thinking here of like I could
deterministically allocate the array
and the first thing I was like okay what
can I do with this and this was the Z80
blog post and I started the path of
essentially
uh using LLMs to essentially clone
product features and of existing
companies.
>> Yes. and
uh like taking source code that was like
BSL licensed source code and like clean
rooming it into specs very similar to
how the Intel and AMD CPU came into
and I reimplemented like Hashi Corp
Nomad. I cloned the company Tail Scale.
I did all these random things.
>> I remember Ro. We read rovo. You did you
did several of them.
>> Yeah, this is
>> it was it was really interesting to
watch how you use the LLM to do this
like binary analysis and then you would
pull out this information and rebuild
what they had put in it and it really
kind of took away uh it like it drained
any moat that you could find like you
could go to any moat and drain it with
that and be like I can build this in a
day or with this loop and figure out how
this works. Nothing can stop me if it's
on my computer
>> pretty much. So for developers, you go
speak with other founders and how
they're they're feeling about this
because that it's it's pretty gloom out
there for founders. Like we can focus on
the developers and developers side of
things, but go speaking founders. Now to
answer your question, when I discovered
this in February, it literally made me
want a Ralph. Ralph is a a term for
vomiting. And it wasn't name it wasn't
named like it wasn't a technique was not
named but it made me want to vomit
because I could actually see where we're
going. I could see where we were going.
Like I was building software in my
sleep. And then I started publishing a
lot more. Um I focused heavily in on
like dear juniors you're screwed if you
don't pay attention. Got that
distributed to prime gen. So the Gen Z
popped off in that area and that was
like real guidance explaining the cycles
of our industry
and I really focused on some of you not
going to make it. You need to be
curious, you need to be curious. There
was reasons behind the order of my
publishing because I was spooked. I was
feeling like really sick in the stomach
knowing what I essentially discovered.
Uh that if you drove it in the right
way, you allocated the context window
deterministically in a loop and it was
all so simple
that I could see where it could go in
the in the future belongs to everything
talk I do. And I say like I walk around
I see dead people like the six sense
like it's not like they're literally
dead just they just don't know that that
they don't have a job yet and I'm like
wake up wake up please wake up please be
curious like play with the LLMs like
they're good enough now play please play
please play and then I went across to
San Fran um went to a meetup ran into
Dex Horty and we had a very similar
moment So that I had that moment in
February to my with myself and then in
July I just rocked up to a meet up in
San Fran 2 hours late presented like
presented last and it would just kept
going all night and it was like 15
people in there. We spent an hour
afterwards going oh my god they could
see it. they could see it.
And because it's San Fran, I decided,
hey, look, this the word's going to get
out about this thing because I just
essentially showed the technique for the
first time. And
I decided, well, it needs a name. It's
kind of dumb. It's kind of lovable,
and it never gives up. And it made me
want a Ralph. So, I called it Ralph as
in Ralph Wigum. And thus if forever is
now stuck in meme folklore.
Um but it also has an alternative
meaning. It also has an alternative
meaning which comes into the future of
software engineering.
What Dex and I have calculated is
the software development as a profession
is dead
but software engineering is very much
alive. Okay. If your if your value to a
business is that you type things on the
keyboard,
would you believe oper sorry set 4.5 on
a loop with with a bash loop? Ralph, the
it costs $1042 US an hour. Now, what's
the minimum wage law? What's the minimum
wage laws in your state? I'm pretty sure
that's why the discussion in San Fran
was going on so long was we realized
that a fast food worker will get paid
more than a software developer. Now, I
don't mean to be inflammatory in saying
that, but that the unit economics
changed. It changed 6 months ago.
There's been a batch of Y cominator
companies raling. You folks were early.
You're reading. You're growing. Like
there there now exists people who are
year a year in or 6 months to a year in
even applying it. And that that the rift
on this is becoming huge huge huge. So
so unfoundly huge. It is un unbelievable
the difference someone who's been
curious for the last year and invested
in themselves has as an advantage
because all the Frontier Labs were
giving away inferencing for almost free.
Now we've got these quotas and caps. So
we were able to burn tokens and do
absolutely crazy stuff with this space
dust.
Now software software engineering
however is alive.
Software engineering is alive.
If you if you're just doing development
or typing the keyboard, yeah, it's
predictable what's about to transpire.
Autonomous worker can do your job. A PM
can drive autonomous worker to do your
job. Now, software engineering is a
different discipline. This is the the
like actually engineering.
If the idea of autonomous loop within
your codebase makes you want to Ralph,
listen to that feeling,
right? Autonomous loops. Just it's like
the it's like the shipping container.
Like you look at the cost of freight per
ton before the shipping container was
invented and it was skyhigh and then it
was like cents to the ton after the
shipping container. The raft loop is
that same type of equivalence of the
change in the unit economics. It's not
going back. So if you're you're if
you're the software dev or or the uh
sailor like carrying cargo on and off
the ship manually, please understand the
doc like the the the container the box
just got invented. Now engineering is
different to software development and
engineering is now the game because
let's say running an autonomous loop
you're like oh what happens it drops the
database sweet you're an engineer right
what are you going to do to stop it from
dropping the database don't provision uh
write secrets maybe you introduce some
tests and you enable uh change data
capture and then you you expect the
audit log like engineer your way out out
of the failure scenarios and the more
you do that the more you capture the
back pressure which allows uh more
autonomy for the new unit economics
that's the game now like pre-commit
hooks property based tests snapshot
tests
and eventually you'll come to where I am
um where I don't even use CI and my
agents run
full
with pseudo on a machine uh bare metal
box running Nyx OS
and I don't review the code the agents
autonomously push to master no branches
and
the deployment happens in under 30
seconds
and then if something goes wrong I've
got feedback loops which feed back into
the active session and then it just
self-repairs. So, we're starting to get
into when you start to get into some
what I'm researching. I call this Loom
and Steve Joerger calls this gas town.
We're exploring what it means for to be
self-evolutionary software. Now, you
don't have to yolo commit into
production.
There's no reason why agents can't be in
control of feature flag experiments
and add in the branch and then they they
connect us to some other data source and
then they make the cut over and they
they roll it all out again. So this is
this is engineering now folks.
It's all an engineering game now.
you know, you're you're you're talking
early on about the importance of that
curiosity, you know, and I and I agree
with you and I and I feel like it's
right now feels like the best time in my
career to be curious. Like there's so
much opportunity when you when you know
where to look. And I feel like a lot of
people their perception of this
technology is a little bit tarnished by
what may have been early experiences
with it. like, you know, we we've all
been using these tools since the the
days of GPT3.5
or whatever it was. And and and I know
that that the things that it failed on
back then w were obvious. Often they
often I felt like it it really did not
seem like a very effective tool. But,
you know, here we are. We we've had
multiple generations of models come out.
The models have gotten substantially
better in uh in the last year in
particular, I think. And and I feel like
there's the because the reputation of AI
has been tarnished so much by the early
phases of it that people are struggling
a little bit to see like what the next
version of this all looks like. Um,
>> yeah, I've got some
>> I'm actually kind of curious if if you
felt like if you felt something similar
even even with the like these autonomous
loops that you're building that you're
raling, are you seeing like the the
changes to the models even like resonate
into like improvements for that method
of doing things as well?
>> Oh, absolutely. So the start of when I
really started publishing like from my
oh [ __ ] moment was like Boxing Day I
guess two years ago now or 12 months ago
really. That was like Sonnet 35 and I
was able to generate like a Haskell
audio library. It was so stupid. It
wasn't like regurgitating Stack
Overflow. That was my mindset and my
frame. Oh, it just regurgitates Stack
Overflow. I tried this in Jupit 3. It's
not anything. and and I I came back cuz
I ran it in a loop like by hand in
cursor. I wasn't quite yet at the very
like
novel idea of just running in a bash
loop. It was just very mechanical like I
was just doing the motions of specs and
everything else.
And
that just shook me. And then when I got
to February, this was at Jupiter 3. Uh,
so this was that that shook me. My
previous frame of reference was like
GPT3ish.
So that was like it took a call with a a
founder to say, "Jeff, you need to get
on the tools. Like you need to start
writing. Do you see what I see? You I'm
going to hang up the now and you go play
and you call me back." 24 hours later, I
was just in Boxing Day. I was just
completely shook cuz I could see the the
I could see the slope, right? It's slope
on slope here, folks. It's it's a
derivative of the slope. And then
February, I kind of really mechanic like
made it very mechanical and that was the
Z80 cloning and realizing what was going
on. That was like Sonet 35. The way I
described Sonet 35 was
it's it's weird when you start really
playing with the models, you start
anamorphizing the models. And this is
how I came up with the idea of quadrants
of behavior like high ethics, low
ethics, an oracle, a deep thinker that
doesn't take action. And then highly
highly agentic. So I called uh Sonnet 35
a squirrel on cocaine with a chef's
knife.
>> You did? I remember that.
>> Yeah. It it I I I called it that because
it it could cook you a meal and it was
so highly agentic, but it had a squirrel
brain. If you took your eyes off it, it
would murder your it murder your your
code base and it would do it.
>> Wanted to use every tool it could touch.
It was tool hungry, tool happy. It was
trigger trigger friendly. It was a
different kind of model.
>> It was a different type. It really was
this like hyperactive squirrel that
would stab you if you took your eye off
it. So you had different techniques to
really control it etc. And now like all
if you look at like cursed and all those
things and like why it looks like chaos,
it's because of the damn squirrel.
>> It's because of the damn squirrel. And
now you don't need to do all that stuff
because
>> like Opus didn't suddenly get better
over Christmas. Just people played.
>> Um
>> and now you it's it's good. But the way
I describe opus is it's high it's highly
agentic. It produces great outcomes but
it's a little bit forgetful. So you have
to nudge it and remind it on like if you
give it too many goals it might forget a
goal. So Ralph and the idea of one loop
uh just doing one thing means it's going
to be less forgetful. When GPT5 first
came out, it was in San Fran and we
couldn't figure out what was going on
because we were was just in the office
and we were like we're tuning a harness
and we're like this thing feels like
it's low testosterone
like cuz there was this big webcast etc.
what's going on and we're like this
thing feels low tea and we couldn't
figure out why. So
went down,
crossed the road, spoke with uh
essentially a competitor that's playing
with this and we're like, why is it like
why is it low testosterone? And they go,
oh, this is San Fran. You can't say low
testosterone, Jeff. We prefer the words
timid.
And then and then you start riffing like
what what's going with the model? Like
the the the harness community is really
small. They might might seem like
enemies, but we're all trying to figure
this out and we anamorphize these
behaviors and then we see what we can do
to get rid once we've identified a
commonality of behavior. What can we do
to get rid of it?
>> Now, it turns out GPT5 doesn't like you
using uppercase if it considers it
yelling at it and it gets timid. This is
in the open AI model cards.
Like if you yell at it, it it become it
won't do its task. It actually does. So,
we stop yelling at it in our harness
prompts and all our tooling. But this is
where it gets really weird because if
you got a code base with cursor rules
and you got a model selector drop down
in and out and you've designed all your
cursor rules around anthropic models
which encourage yelling at the model
that you want they want you to hurl
abuse at the model. But if you do it at
two, you did the model selector, all of
a sudden, is it really GPT5 that's bad
or are you yelling at the model? Because
all these cursor rules now are yelling
at the model. The harness is now yelling
at the model. And the official published
guide on how to tune GPT5 by OpenAI says
don't yell at the model.
Um,
>> isn't it funny to think that they're not
compatible on an API level, but then
also on a behavioral level, the types of
things you'd put in the prompts on the
like the human created parts that go
into it or the text based parts that go
into it, like it's even those they're
they're not compatible. They're not
compatible.
>> My understanding is the MCP
specification still doesn't have a user
agent sniffic.
So it could switch out the the prompts
uh based on what the consumer is to take
this type of nuance and all the MCP
servers you download and run, they're
they're the same story here.
>> They've been built around entropic and
then you use them in a different model
and it's not so good. It's not that
model's no good. Like it just hasn't
been tuned.
>> That's right.
And how do you know if you're tuning is
because you start anamorphizing the
models and you start noticing these
weird things and you're around other
people who start thinking along these
lines and you just try things. It's a
very different skill to building
software uh with the tools like tuning
is a very different skill.
>> Yeah, there's definitely times that I've
taken the same problem and taken it to a
different model and gotten the result I
wanted when I didn't get it from the the
first model. And and I'm and I'm kind of
I'm curious, you know, because so so
Ralph is like it's there's there's two
sorts of sides to this. There's this
like brilliant simplicity that just
takes a very simple concept and and uses
it to iteratively improve on on an
output, but it's also like incredibly
inefficient, isn't it? Like it is. Is is
is is this how we're going to like tune
these models or make them better or is
it are we making up for a failure of the
capabilities that will get addressed at
some point in the future?
>> The game is always changing. The game is
always changing. Like the the the
prompts I use for Curse and from
February and all that stuff to try to
keep the squirrel on the on rails, no
longer apply. The game always changes.
Like I still see people doing
>> like GPT3 big UR
you are a QA developer persona and all
that stuff. That stuff's dead folks.
Gone. Gone. It doesn't matter. Like stop
treating it like it's GPU3. Persona
based is dead. Now to your question
that doesn't mean you shouldn't adopt
and start playing. Now just because the
knowledge is disposable like you need to
actually learn what it is and is not
possible. It's the capabilities and
knowing on how you do loop backs and all
this and you learn all these tricks. The
tricks for me in the last year I haven't
lost but the approaches how I get them
have changed. The approaches how I get
them have changed. So Ralph is
incredibly inefficient
because what you're doing is essentially
malicking an array
every loop and then telling it to only
do one thing
and then you have to remal this big
thing at the top again the
specifications each time each time. So
there is waste there. But if you think
about that Ralph enables a path for
founders to get software development at
$1042 an hour, any types of talks of
efficiencies is just going to going to
drive that price down. So I mentioned
the word array and this is maybe some
advice to for developers in this space.
Context windows or tokens are these
weird MLE terms.
I want people to think about this as an
array and memory management, malicking
an array because that's all a context
window is. There's no memory on the
server API. There's none. What you're
doing is you're when you do a prompt,
you're allocing or malicking your prompt
to that array. It literally gets sent
off as a standard REST request
and it gets churned on some GPUs and it
might go
you advertise a capability that you
could run a program. So it response
comes back your harness says
the LLM wants to run a program. Okay,
I'm going to run ls and then it
autoallocates the ls to the array and
then it sends it back for more
inferencing. You're just malicking
arrays here folks.
So, and that's one of the been the
biggest turn of inventions that that
caused from my like oh god moment was I
used to copy and paste code uh from GPT3
into
like an editor press compile and back
forward copy and paste manually. All
tool calling is the automation of that.
Okay. All Ralph is is the automation of
tool calling for a system.
in treating the entire thing as a system
and taking a systemsbased approach from
first principles. So if you got this
array that you're malicking and then
there's some hints in the name of a
context window, software engineers
should know what a sliding window is.
So you got an array, you got a sliding
window, the window is only so big, the
array is much bigger. So the less that
you allocate then then the more the
window is going to be able to see. So
thus the the thought that you should
only pick one in the loop. And this is
really wild because a lot of engineers
right now are using multi-stage planning
and they they're treating it like a
child. They're breaking it down to the
steps they should do and they're in this
high control thing.
Invert that thinking. LMS are fantastic
at prioritization. If you're building a
brand new application up from specs, it
will do the logging module first. It
will do the the the telemetry next. It
will do repository patterns for
databases.
It will it will do the right things in
the right order. So by just telling it
to just pick the best like the most
important item and only do one, you're
you're malicking less into the context
window. Because what happens with uh a
context window is you got an advertised
number of 200K.
That's a marketing number, folks. the
same way you get a hard drive and it
like it says it's uh 20 terabytes but
it's only 18 terabytes usable like the
same thing here in thinking because
there's a harness over overhead
uh there's a harness overhead and then
there's a model overhead. So a model
overhead would be like the the the
actual programming of uh opus for
example you can't get rid of that. So
all of a sudden you can crudely say that
you lose 16k tokens to the model
overhead and then when you're using
cursor or any other clawed code or what
else have you you also get a 16k
overhead. So the real number is like in
the 176 but if you put in MCP servers in
there all of a sudden the real number
gets down to like 120 and then you throw
in some cursor rules in there. I've seen
people operating with like they've only
this is like a Commodore 64 worth of
memory and they they've allocated over
80% of their memory before they even be
able to get a loop going.
And because this is a sliding window,
right? It's so easy for it to get
forgetful and all these other things.
The more you allocate, the the more
you're going to get bad outcomes. So
Ralph is a deliberate attempt to
minimize allocation. So I never get a
compaction event. Compaction is the
equivalent of imagine you got a you got
this beautiful context window a
beautiful array getting you really good
outcomes and you oh my god there's been
so you've seen them that you're like I
want
>> and then it compacts like I'm so sad.
Yeah. And then and then it compacts and
you're you're
>> or even if it doesn't compact it gets
anxiety that it's going to have to
compact it and then it starts making bad
decisions as a result.
>> Correct. So
>> that is true.
>> Sonnet 4 had the was we just we actually
described it as when we're treating
harnesses as it had context anxiety.
Opus doesn't really have some of those
attributes. But what would happen when
it had context anxiety, it would go in a
simple implementation,
I'm running out of time. I'm just going
to like comment out this thing and
cheat.
>> Like there's all these little meta
things. So,
so the idea of I want people to think
about compaction because this is a new
term for folks is really simple. Imagine
that you've got this array and this
array says this is your specifications.
This is your goal. Compaction is just
literally imagine a Jenga tower, right?
And if you pull up the wrong bricks at
the bottom that the tower falls over.
Compaction is is essentially this
equivalence of it like a Jenga tower and
visualization of outcomes. But also if
you download a video on YouTube and
upload it a thousand times download
upload download upload it's actually a
loss it's a lossy function folks
>> right? So what happens if the the
compaction
removes
the thing that was giving you this juicy
golden window which could be your
specifications and if the specifications
get compacted out next thing you know
the end result is it starts making stuff
up. So avoiding compaction and then
using that array with a singular goal to
get stuff done.
Now if we go away from Ralph really
quickly and let's just say someone as
Steve Yaggis one or two
>> what I a failure mode I see is software
developers they click new chat they get
they they like make my website pink and
then they reuse the array and they set
another goal that's completely nothing
to do with the website being pink and
then they say make me an API and all of
a sudden they've got this backend API
controller with pink rest end points
like you you need to be thinking about a
new chat is a new array each array
>> chat hygiene
>> chat hygiene and before we go past that
and I just rewind a bit there is proven
scientific research of the notion of
context rot and the existence of a dumb
zone. So if you think that you've got
like a 200k and like once once you go
like 60 70% over that like the LM starts
getting dumber actually dumber. So you
want to like minimize the amount of time
in your dumb zone is what uh Dex Horty
would say and it it is true. And so
Ralph deliberately is you don't want to
get in the dumb zone and you don't want
a compaction, but you want to
deterministically
allocate. It's an orchestrator pattern
>> for for a gas town or for what is to
come next or someone can use to build
their own gas town.
>> AI has changed how we build software,
but faster code doesn't always mean
faster delivery. That's why LinearB is
launching the essentials plan, your
toolkit for measuring and improving AI
productivity. You get the new LinearB
MCP server, AI insights dashboard, and
developer surveys, all designed to
reveal how AI tools impact delivery
speed, code quality, and developer
experience. Stop guessing which AI tools
work and start leading with data. Visit
linearb.io to learn more and unlock the
next chapter of AI productivity.
You know, let's let's talk for a minute
about about Gas Town. You bring up Steve
and and and maybe how Gas Town is uh
something that's building on the idea of
Ralph maybe is something totally
different from Ralph. I'm curious to
know from your perspective like what
you're teaching all of us to do right
now and embracing, you know, the slope
on the slope. There's an exponential
curve of learning and opportunity here
for folks. And I think the real takeaway
from this is that the simplicity of this
loop, the simplicity of all of these
parts that you have to bring in to keep
context small, to be lightweight, and to
be interchangeable. I think all of that
plays into people building their own
types of rafts, their own loops. And
maybe Gas Town is an example of one of
those coming into fruition. But, you
know, I I personally, as someone uh
who's building and using these tools
too, I see it as an inspiration to go
and maybe craft my own gas town. I've
definitely borrowed a lot of concepts
from it. So I'm curious like how you
think about the evolutions of your
concept like Ralph and how you see them
out in the world.
>> Yeah. I used to work with Yagi over at
Source Graph. I spent a bit of time
traveling around Apac telling people pay
please pay attention, pay attention, pay
attention because I was sitting on Ralph
and Yagi was out doing much more
worldwide big tours cuz he is Yagi and
he's just saying folks pay attention the
orchestrators coming and he'd already
done like his rant saying this is going
to happen and I don't think people took
him seriously. So on New Year's Eve, he
dropped a blog post said, "Welcome to
Gas Town. Do not use Gas Town. Gas Town
is not for you. But by the way, here's
this beautiful chart that allows you to
measure where you are on skill level."
>> Mhm.
>> And in the figure five is the notion
where you start deterministically
allocating
a agent and Ralphing. And when you get
to like six and seven, six and seven,
six is when you're
starting to like learn to run multiple
these at the same time and then you
experience failure domains when you're
running two at the same time and then
you realize it's you got to do some
engineering. So like the two spinning
plates you got going don't fail in the
same way. By the time you get to like
figure seven, you got like 10 plates
spinning at the same time. It's just
different windows on a widescreen
monitor.
Um, and it starts feeling really
chaotic. It feels like a spaghetti base
in Factorio.
>> It feels like a spaghetti base in
Factori. Where did I put my iron? Where
did I put my or
>> Yeah. Where is it? Where is it? It's all
at home, but where the hell is it? Yeah.
>> Where the hell is it? Right. And the
reason you shouldn't go to Gas Town is
it's it's like use Gas Town is you need
to go through the motions of a per
yourself development as as a developer
to learn why Gastown needs to exist and
why it's coming and that's from like
learning to allocate the array in figure
five and then also changing your
software engineering practices because
by the time you're doing figure five
which is Ralph like a singular Ralph
What happens is your you start
questioning things like code review, why
do we do code review? I think that what
you get that you start thinking like why
do we have agile? Why do we do daily
standups? It's our job as engineers to
potentially falsify the last 40 years of
software engineering practices and
engineering magnet management practices
for our new power tools that now exist.
Everything is now different, but we're
still an engineer. We don't want
failures. We don't want people like
things getting hacked and all the rest.
So like at figure five, like you you're
generating a 40,000 line pull request in
a couple hours and your coworkers doing
the same and like you it starts to be
transparent in your face like I think
the industry is going to spend the next
year going how do we fix the code review
dilemma? The answer is you don't for
classes depending on the domain
especially in product you just don't do
the code review instead you uh you you
work on safe release practices you
engineer if you see fail domains such
you put them as pre-commit hooks maybe
you run other Ralph loops after the
Ralph loop is done that's when you start
thinking into
when you start getting the mega base in
Factorio and that's Gas Town and that's
through the lessons learned at five 6 7
8 is the full application of all that
learning that came before. You can't
just skip the learning and just go
straight to Gas Town. Like maybe you
can, but you're not going to have any
edge. Like we're meant to be curious as
engineers. Go for and earn your stripes.
It's not that not that complicated.
Now at seven, you're seven, you you
create eight because it's just too
chaotic. It's so draining. Like trying
to find resources in in your base or
spaghetti town is just so damn
ridiculous. You like stuff it. I'm going
to rebuild my base
>> from all the knowledge. And then you
whatever your domain is, if you're a
software engineer, you're an accountant,
you're
like legal, whatever, you will build
your own gas town.
>> I've I've got my own gas town. Uh it's
called Loom.
I've cloned GitHub
uh AMP code uh Daytona.
I have my own source code called JJ. I
have the ability of a source code host.
Like I'm basically on the idea if I want
to explore the the space of
invalidation,
I essentially need to be able to control
everything from source to be able to
change what it is. And now it's so
simple to clone product features in
companies. Like the next thing I'll do
is like launch darkly. I'll have feature
flags in there. So I can play around
with safe engineer. You can literally
clone platforms now folks. The models
are getting so good. It's getting so
simple. So, I have my own gas town, but
my gas town is like a hard fork
from uh everything that's been done
today. I'm I want to build an autonomous
evolutionary software loom. Yagi is
within the realms of what exists today.
That's a differentiator.
Like I I'm prepared to like fork like
source control. I've got my own file
system that I've built for the agents.
Like, if you think it's unhinged, I'm
doing it.
Trying to find the answer of what the
right thing to build and not build is.
And what do agents need? Like,
>> I don't think it's unhinged. I'm
inspired. It's amazing.
>> I I'll give you something to think
about. Uh, Unix is essentially 40 years
of design for humans. Think about it.
We have we have the TTY which was on the
idea of the humans interacting it. We
got bash because it was for the humans.
We got a shell for humans.
>> All programming languages just
evolutions of a base language for the
computer but those were all variables.
>> All for humans. Environmental variables
for humans.
>> Why do we humans? For humans for humans.
>> For humans. Yeah.
>> Humans. And then you start thinking wow
what happens if I start cutting down the
stack like I'm I'm familiar with like
uni kernel domain knowledge of research
etc but I'm like what if user space
didn't exist anymore that's where I'm
going to explore like what is agent
space what if we took the last 40 years
of Unix design
>> and we made figured out what agent space
what if in what if it's just SIS calls
to a kernel
and that's all an agent needs. Like we
need to rethink about what engineering
is. We've got this magic like we got
this magic space dust machine that can
do crazy things. And I guess when people
first do their wrath loops, they're
going to feel like I did. You feel like
you're robbing your future,
but not in the sense that you you you're
putting yourself out of a job. I've done
all the things I wanted to do in
retirement.
It's it's idea to execution. Like I want
to build a file system. Oh yeah, I built
one last year. I want to build a
program. Oh yeah, I built one last year.
like you start doing all it's like and
then you realize there's this mass like
dopamine that you can just do anything
now and you start just doing it and
we're going to see this mass explosion
of creativity of people just doing it.
It's going to be like geio cities. It's
going to be really pretty. It's going to
be scary for founders. go speak with
founders how they feel about this
because you know it is pretty unhinged
that one person in three days just live
streaming
uh essentially
I don't know three four companies of a
thousand employees each over six years
worth of work that they would have put
in in those three companies and got the
core feature set in three days this is
what we're looking at here folks but
this is when I said the rift is getting
massive
And if people are just still sitting
there with cursor going why no why no
know that there are people out there
doing laps like the they're doing laps
on laps right now
>> and something that Angie and I have
actually talked about just on our own
over the last year is how like it does
feel like it's never been easier to get
ahead of everything as quickly as
possible. like you can just go you you
you learn a new technology in this space
and then suddenly you're operating a
hundred times faster than anyone else
around you. But it's also never been
easier for everyone else than to catch
up and figure it out and get right back
to where you are. You know I mean Ralph
has been a thing for
>> for you know six months or so seven
>> and suddenly everyone wakes up and is
like oh my gosh I should also be doing
this thing and now suddenly everyone
like sort of is. And I and I and I hate
this phrase because it gets way
overplayed, but like a lot of people are
saying like AI won't replace you.
Someone using AI will replace you. And
I'm I'm almost kind of getting the sense
out of this that like, you know, Gas
Town isn't going to replace engineers,
but engineers who are using Gas Town or
who are building their own Gas Town,
those are the ones that are going to
like replace the the other engineers.
And so in that when you frame it that
way, it's like learning how to build a
gas town and how to do this Ralph
technique. This is actually just the new
domain of of fundamental skills that
engineers need to have and it's you know
just like learning a programming
language. It's something that you you
have to you have to build that skill and
refine it.
>> Um this is the hard this is the hardest
send and agreement. We understand we've
got a birth of a new
discipline of compsai here like it it's
being invented every day every every
day.
>> If you're not hanging around people who
don't see this then you need to plug
yourself into people like uh there's
some good communities on blue sky but
most of the AI activity for devs is
happening on X. Like go plug yourself in
and be really curious. So, one of the
first fundamentals every developer
should learn is how to build your first
coding agent because a coding agent is
your tool. We spend hours and hours and
days configuring NeoVim and all our dot
files etc. If it's just 300 lines of
code, why would you not want to have
your own coding harness? Then you can
exercise your taste, your discipline,
all that high control you used to do on
like on code, you can now do it on your
printing press of code. So go build your
agent because like cursor, wind surf and
all these like harness companies are
building coding agents. There's nothing
different between them. There's pretty
much nothing different between them.
It's 300 lines of code allocating array
with some tools like read file, read
file, edit file, bash tool, and a search
tool. The search tool is just executing
the bash tool and executing the command
rip grip. That's all they're doing. And
they're trying to differentiate
themselves as being like
like the Gucci or the Louis Vuitton and
we we're different or or we we we make
software.
>> I'm a cursor user. I'm a wind surf user.
Like camps,
>> putting everyone into camps. But you
don't have to be in a camp.
>> You don't have to be in a camp. Like
honestly, I trust a a car mechanic
that's rebuilt a few carburetors
a whole lot more than someone just
orders the new part and slaps it on. I
want software
software engineers that are curious that
are being mechanics. They go rebuild the
carburetor. Understand? Exactly. Cuz
once you understand what curse is doing,
you go you understand the prestige. You
realize it's not magic. It's not scary.
It's like I'm scared of a while true
loop that with a REST API. Yeah, you
are.
>> And you realize just how how dumb that
is,
>> right?
>> So you and then you go build your own
and then you you start thinking, well,
okay,
I'm going to automate workflows in my
life. I'm going to automate like a
producing of software and then you
eventually end up at Gas Town. So I
spent the last year really encouraging
people go build your own agent. I've got
a workshop. It's on GitHub. It's free.
It take you 30 minutes and it's
unlocking people's brains. Now, where
that gets interesting is because once
you realize the magic trick of AI
and why every company is doing AI is
because it's just those 300 lines of
code with like a prompt on top, GPT
rapper stuff, you realize there's no
moes.
>> So, this is something that devs should
have a conversation with founders and
business leaders. What is a moat? Now,
if some person in Sydney is able to
basically rip a fart into a voice prompt
and like clone huge product features in
companies that would have taken thousand
2,000 over 10 years and just not do it
at one and do it at many and if I come
into the market type topics or someone
comes into the market if there's like
10,000
uh employees or heads to be fed like
like outgoing expenses and at a singular
company and then it's just three chill
dudes in barley like living like kings
and they coming in at a different unit
economics. Guess what's going to happen?
So,
uh we started on this story arc of like
like AI is going to take your job etc.
No, this is I was this is one of my
things like some software developers not
going to make it. And I framed it really
around the idea of employee performance
bell curves. Some companies do
performance reviews at 6 months, some do
it 12 months, high performance 6 months.
It's very aggressive. Fang, etc. And
what's happening is you're going to come
across fang etc.
Let's say that you're a high performer
at Fang like last year. This year when
you do performance reviews, you're the
high performance is now low performance
because the high performers are gas
towning
>> or they built their own gas town and
that's why you won't make it.
It's not AI. You just you weren't
curious. You didn't invest in yourself.
You were asleep at the wheel and the
inevitable happened. And business
leaders need to actually make
adjustments
because there's a couple people having
couple people having the time of their
lives coming into their market at a
cheaper price point and they're never
going to raise money. They've had to
raise money. They got valuations got
stakeholders and investors.
This is Clayton Christensen disruptive
innovation
textbook.
So if you want to be a developer, don't
be don't be don't be a waiter. Don't be
a jur ticket monkey. Be a doctor that
diagnoses the problems. So, like you
want to get yourself as close as
possible to a PM or
in front of customers and you want to
like
you you don't want to be downstream
because when you're at figure five agile
fractures
at figure 8 like you're like yeah I'm
just going to be on barley and I've got
my loom that's automating software
development and I can do anything I
like. I just got to like throw some
tokens on on the campfire. And this is
the evolution of where software is.
We're still engineering. We're still
software engineers, but it's critically
important to be around people who get
it. And I'd like to add the following
note.
Just because AI is not working in a
company does not mean AI does not work.
It means the company has a problem with
AI because they've got a whole bunch of
corporate dogma. Maybe they're doing
have to do a lot of context engineering
to try and get it to the right coding
standards and patterns. But the reason
we had coding standards and patterns was
for legibility for humans. Getting back
to the full humans thing. So I've seen
people trying to like they in
woodworking there's a notion of working
with the grain or against the grain. I
see a lot of corporates working against
the grain and then the employees using
AI there. They're not using it at home
and experiencing working with the grain.
And my biggest concern is those people
don't when someone says, "Hi, I'm a
software developer." And they say, "AI
doesn't work for me." I go, "Sweet. What
identity are you coming from? Are you
coming from as a software developer
where your identity is that you you're a
net developer? Cuz that doesn't matter
anymore. Are you coming from that you're
you're coming from like Deutsche Bank?
Well, that that really doesn't matter
anymore. Like if AI is not working at
Deutsche Bank, that's a Dutch bank
problem. I'm speaking to the developers
like are you playing with it at home?
Are you engineering and learning the
way? Because we've got a year now. We've
got model first companies like working
with the wood where they've captured the
back pressure. They've they've
engineered ways so Ralph can keep on
working
understand there's a completely
different mental model on how software
should be built now different unit
economics
and if your company doesn't get it you
have a choice. You can either go to a
company that gets it. There are plenty
out there now. you can go capture the
opportunity and live like a king in Bali
uh and build your own gas town and just
like smash your previous employer or you
can suffer through a probably three or
four year AI transformation program. If
any developer remembers when all the
essential consultants that ran through
and we got agile coaches that's coming
baby
>> I think it's already here for a lot of
people. Yeah, I'm pretty sure that's
already like more or less happening a
lot of places.
>> Like I'm just I have so much I want to
follow up on, but at the same time,
we've been chatting now for a bit, so I
want to be mindful of time. Jeffrey, and
this conversation, we've taken a wild
tour through loops and into towns, way
out in the distance, and you've really
kind of painted a picture about where
this is all going. And and that's why we
were really excited to tune in today
because, you know, on Dev Interrupted,
we've constantly, you know, been
following the stuff that you've been
talking about, how the moes are gone,
how the walls are gone, how people need
to be running, hill climbing, and and
building their own Ralphs. And it's just
been an amazing opportunity to kind of
dig deeper into where you're thinking
about all this, especially capitalizing
on this amazing zeitgeist of activity
happening right now post holiday break
where everyone's emerging freshly
experimented with these tools. Maybe
they had put it down years ago and
didn't pick it back up, but now they
did. Like there's an elucidation in the
air and you can smell it when you talk
to people about how they talking about
how they're working in engineering right
now. And so we're going to keep having
these conversations. You know, you're a
friend of the show. Uh we want to
continue understanding where this is all
going and I think you're the perfect
person to guide us and our audience. And
so just, you know, keep that in mind
that we're going to be having you back
here in the hot seat very soon. But
before uh we do start to close out here,
I just want to turn it back to you cuz
everything all all good things are a
loop, Jeff. So I'm going to turn it back
to you one one last time and say where
do you want to leave this on? Where
should folks go uh to go learn more
about you and what you're building and
where this is uh how they can start get
getting advantage of this themselves?
>> Yeah, sure. U my website uh
guntuntley.com.
You'll link it in the show notes. Uh
it's all there. It's all free. Just an
email address. That's my ask. If you
want to pay, you'll get access to some
of my ideas maybe 48 hours early. San
Fran Crowd likes the notion of alpha.
They like to frontr run and like have
the ideas first. So if they want to pay
for that, you can pay for it, but you
don't have to. You just like put your
email and you can see it all. Been
publishing for the last year. Uh, it's
all about the loops. Now, when I say
engineering, you should be engineering
feedback loops. So, that's all Ralph is
is like forcing the feedback loop back
on itself to actually get something to
done. And that's all that tool calling
was. And it's your job now to actually
start looking at data sources that you
can engineer to feed back into the loop.
So, to to get the outcomes. Now, if this
is all new to you and it's really
startling like that there's people a
year ahead and they're doing absurd
things, you're like, "I can never catch
up." That's [ __ ] Would you believe
if you're watching this, you're early.
Only 10,000 people have installed the
Claude Code plugin. You're early.
There's still time. There's still time.
Strap yourself in. Just know that the
official cord code plugin uh does takes
you on a path where you uh where you get
compaction etc. They did really good job
of accessibility but you need to
approach this like an engineer. Just go
do it like build it up step by step like
Kubernetes the hard way but like context
engineering. Um, I have another video
where I with Dex Horty on my YouTube
that says why the enthropic plugin isn't
it and maybe you should go look at that
as well. It gets in into really detail
of context engineering and some other
tips. Go check it out and I can't wait
to come back.
>> Amazing. Well, thank you again Jeeoff.
I'm so happy we made it to the end of
the call before a compaction event
occurred. Even though I think that
between our conversation, we definitely
filled the whole window with a lot of
ideas for people to be digesting. So
folks, you know, definitely be
processing that we're all going to be
coming back in this hot seat and talking
about this more soon. Uh 2026 is going
to be a fascinating year where
orchestrators emerge and and and you and
your team, they're already full of them.
So let's take advantage of that
opportunity. Jeff, thank you again for
coming. Uh and uh we'll see y'all at the
next one.
>> To the next one. See you soon.
