It's
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hi there. Welcome to season 2 of AI
Giants, a podcast where we dive very
deep into the AI coding world with some
of the most influential makers shaping
the products we're using every day. I'm
your host Jam George. Welcome to
everyone watching on YouTube, X and
LinkedIn.
Also, quick very quick announcement as
we start. The Eye Giant is now available
as a podcast. So, make sure to follow um
and um get on Spotify via the link
below. Should appear anytime soon. Let's
go. Um and very excited about the first
episode of 2026 with a unique um Jeffrey
Hunley.
Jeff is best described as a goat farmer.
Um he created Ralph a year ago and did a
whole bunch of speaking before it was
released. Jeff also did a lot of open
source work, previously known as a
maintainer of React extensions. Jeff is
excellent to have you today.
>> Thank you so much for having me here
today. Um, I'm looking at the run sheet
that we're going to be going through.
So, strap yourself in, folks. It's going
to be fun. It's going to be spicy. It's
going to be lively. Let's go.
>> Okay. Before we start, reminder that you
can post questions uh in the Q&A in our
website, but also if you comment or make
questions in YouTube, X and LinkedIn, we
have a number of folks that kind of just
grabbing them and posting them here, so
we can try to answer them and we will
address them at the end if we have the
time. I don't promise to answer any
single one of them, but we'll do our
best. Let's get started. Jeff, what is
Ralph?
>> Yeah. So, there's uh it's taken a split
meaning. It's taken a split meaning. Um,
Anthropic has published their
implementation of my research that I
published around about in uh, July last
year and it is a implementation
um, but you're not going to get as good
as outcome unless you apply the general
theory. So we'll probably get into some
of the general theory here. Um the way
the anthropic implementation works it
just completely continually runs until
it gets a compaction event. Uh whereas
the general theory is uh what you do is
you create a brand new context window
every array on every loop. You tell it
to only do one thing. So you don't get
compaction. You don't have uh you don't
have any rot. So in this most simplest
way, Ralph is really a very easy way to
teach a concept.
It's a pattern for an orchestrator.
Now you you might be new to this term of
an orchestrator. It's really simple.
Imagine if you had a thousand of these
Ralph loops going. This allow is a way
of allocating memory or tasks or goals
to a higher level thing. So you can have
thousand of these going like Steve's
been talking about this for the last
year and he's just released his with
Gastown. I'm I've got my own that I'm
building live u which is loom like I I
want a thousand weavers going on. So in
the most simplest way it is a bash loop
that deterministically allocates the
memory allows the LM to pick like one
thing to do in the task list and uh you
set it off to the races and uh it's just
a bash loop. But then again you might be
thinking well it's just a loop. Well
cursor is just a loop. Wind surf all
these things using every day is just a
loop. If you think really carefully
about it from the right angle from
GPT3ish days, we used to like make me a
Python application and it would give you
a Python application and it was pretty
terrible back then. So you copy and
paste it, you put it into uh your idea,
you press run, you get compilation
error, so you copy and paste it back
backwards forwards tool calling and
cursor is just the automatic copy and
pasting. So you might be thinking, oh
it's just a bash loop, nothing amazing.
Well, cursor is just was or just
essentially a loop of automatically copy
and pasting. This is a loop for
essentially which will allow a scalable
supervisor on top to run thousands of
these things.
Okay.
Um,
what would you say that was the first
task that you ran Ralph on and you
thought, "Holy [ __ ] this actually
worked." Um, and alternatively, what did
it fail as partacularly before that
worked? Yeah, I I so
um I need to do a huge amount of shout
outs to uh Kristoff. Kristoff um who is
from the Finite team
probably about four years ago joined
GitHub next and they published a
research um at GitHub next about spec
driven development.
Now it was too early. It was like most
too early that was in Gypsy 3 days and
it it didn't pop off but they they that
research um at GitHub next proved that
you could build an application in
natural language.
So I remembered that back in December um
I had an engine director come to me tap
me on the shoulder. It's like you need
to pick up the tools. Everyone in the
engine or needs to pick up the tools
here. And I remembered the researcher
spec kit by Kristoff. He's in Poland.
And I went with a specs or P based
approach first.
Now, and I just kept refining the
approach from from Boxing Day. I guess
it's two years ago now. Um,
and it the f I kept refining it by hand.
It was like I found myself like
deterministically allocating things and
then slowly changing my approach. I used
to high command like telling it the
multi-stage thing what to do and I saw
that the models are were pretty good at
prioritizing things in implementation
plan. So I started to learn to give away
control but keep high oversight.
That was really weird. Um I'm we got
into programming because we I guess we
we're high control. We like controlling
the computers and I've learned in I
guess in the last two years I'm still
controlling the computers. I'm
programming computers but what I'm doing
is I'm programming the new machine like
the LLMs and the loop. I'm I'm I'm the
orchestra the loops. Now to get to your
question exactly, it was around about
February. It was around about February
last year and um I was playing been
playing Factorial with my son
extensively playing Factorio with my son
at this time like maybe maybe for six
months and factoriing
me. He's like dad you seem to be doing a
lot of things by hand.
Um, but it's the exact same way every
time. Why don't you Why don't you just
put it in a loop?
And I'm like, okay, he's nine. I'm like,
I'm gonna just put it in a loop. Holy
crap. Holy crap. And the models weren't
great back then. So, I knew like where
we're going. We're at like slope on
slope improvements of these underlying
models. It was only a matter of time
before this would actually fundamentally
change the unit economics of software
development. There is a difference
between software development and
software engineering.
Software development is essentially uh
like a jur ticket monkey. Um
you could probably say that software
development is over now because anyone
can be a software developer. Uh the cost
of software development now is $1042 an
hour which is lower than the minimum
wage and anyone can do it while they
sleep. So if you identify as a software
developer,
it's some pretty tough times. But then
like typing the code or writing the code
is it's been fun, but it was never
really the real job. The real job is
really engineering, breaking down
requirements and like engineering loops
and like how could it fail, security and
all that stuff. So it's going to be
really important for software
engineering. So the first thing I did
back in February, I did what I published
something called the Z80. Uh Z80 was a
essentially a research that was way too
early which detailed how you could clone
a company, clone a SAS company or how
you can drive an LLM like a
crypto mixer over intellectual property.
The reason that we have Intel CPU AMD
CPUs today is because what someone did
is AMD hired an engineer. They did some
uh they did some very dirty reverse
engineering to the Intel chip. They got
a golden uh parachute when they did
that. But that person was now burned.
They legally can no longer work at AMD
ever again. And what that person did was
sat down with oscilloscope and they
actually reverse hardcore reverse
engineer the CPU from Intel. and AMD
can't use that that work directly any
any notes whatever but if that person
writes a book or a specification that's
brand new IP that's original and that is
legally clean
so that's what happened that person gets
a golden parachute out and then AMD
hires a bunch of people to implement
from his their brand new IP that that
describes a memoir of how the CPU works
So that's what I did. I I took an
application and I I went through the
steps proving if I could clean room with
LLMs and I took
>> You wrote a memoir.
>> Yeah. And I or a technique I was like,
"Hey folks, wake up." Like things are
about to change and I I took it like a
sales tax calculator that I generated
and I took it through all the steps up
to a spec. threw away everything so
there wouldn't be any pollution and then
I uh from specs I turned it I made it
run on the Sinclair Z80 from the 1980s
and I'm like oh crap my toy example
worked and this was with a model that
was I used to describe like Sonnet 35 I
used to describe as a hyperactive
squirrel uh armed with kitchen knife
like it's easily distracted
uh it's easily distracted is highly
hyperactive, highly agentic, and it just
wants to do things. And if you take your
eye off it, you you'll work you'll get
stabbed. It's got a kitchen knife, but
if you learned how to like
tame the squirrel,
you could probably get a salad.
>> You used to get something like that out
of it. And um
the the the the the skill level to try
and get something back then was like
that.
With Opus, it's like this and it's just
closing now. Like a year in, it is so
much easier to do this technique. And
now that my toy example had worked, I'm
like, okay,
could I clean room a company? So, I
downloaded Hashi Corp uh Nomad source
code
and I ran Ralph in reverse. A lot of
people right now are missing the point
that Ralph goes forward, meaning you can
use it to build software. No, run Ralph
in reverse to create a clean room
specification.
And when you do that, you can run Ralph
in the reverse. And I was like, hey,
study all this source code. completely
don't care about the copyright whatever
I'm just doing proving that I could
probably the toy example could I clone a
product feature set of a of like a
product with a they thought they were
protected by their software license and
they thought that they were protected by
not releasing some of the uh some of the
code the enterprise core so I ran raph
in reverse generate the specs cool I got
specs but they're missing 20% because I
didn't have the source code for the
enterprise function ity and you start
okay I got a problem now like how like
I'm I'm not interested in 80% of
infrastructure orchestrator
no it's it's it's simple you run Ralph
over their product guides their
marketing material all their customerf
facing things describe the product
feature set and then that was enough to
plug the gaps and at that point I was
godamn spooked
>> like it was spooky back in Feb
because I could see what's about to
happen that for founders there isn't
real no really no moat and I was just on
the like just down the loop learning
really refining it so I went out and did
a lot a lot of like talks I started
writing a lot um it
>> because you're concerned about the
impact of this
>> correct correct uh what does this mean
now like what does this mean now to be a
software developer what does it mean to
be a software engineer there. What does
it mean when like software development
is cheaper than like a burger flipper at
Mackers?
Um, and I'm getting emails from juniors
saying, "Hey, look, I I've just included
uni. I feel absolutely screwed.
Like like
>> I I want to get into that junior
question just in a in a second.
>> But I I So some some folks what they're
doing essentially is like they're taking
these screen uh captures of videos of
products and now they're saying, "Hey,
pick up all of this, build a spec, and
then build a product." But you actually
use Ralph to go and read and understand
from the source code, build a spec, and
they'll grow from there just to prove
the concept.
>> Correct. That's what I did. So I I use
source code to prove that any company
out there that's raised a large amount
of venture capital who has adopted like
a BSL license or some bespoke license,
none of that matters anymore. That's not
a safety net. It's gone.
>> Yeah, that's that's that's the quote of
this podcast. Thank you. Um
that's scary stuff. Um, so I want to
again go back to a point here that you
mentioned the cursor is is a loop and
most of these tools are so question to
you. Do you think that most of these
modern AI agentic tools are just over
complicated?
>> Yeah, I used to like I I professionally
uh built these tools. Um,
>> take it from me,
>> you're probably in corporate right now
and you're swapping between like, I'm
going to cursive today. Oh, I'm going to
wind surf next week. Oh, we got to do a
evaluation of all these different
things. You're just chasing your tail.
The harness really does nothing. It's
the model that does all the work because
there is really no moat in the harness
business when you're reselling tokens.
uh the all you can do is project a
brand. I'm Gucci. I'm I'm like like I'm
Louis Vuitton, etc. We're different.
Now, some have a higher degree of taste.
Like there are like there are clothing
and like bags and watches, etc. where uh
they they're still just a watch, but
they they they've got a high degree of
taste in how they take their approach.
Um, so like they're all really just the
same. It's the model that does it all.
So you just do a little bit as a coding
tool to do this. Um, so yeah, we do
complicate it. However said that whilst
I've said that the anthropic is uh is
not it, they've done a fantastic job of
removing the need for me to teach a
whole category of knowledge because
they're making it very accessible that I
I'm seeing videos on YouTube of like
>> like folks in folks in the Bronx
launching their like crypto pros or what
else have you and they're like yo check
out Ralph Loop yo I I just woke woke up
and and built my entire my entire thing
when I was sleeping. That's only
possible because of the work that
Anthropic has done in Claude Co to make
it super accessible.
Um,
one way that you describe Ralph, just to
continue doubling down on how kind of a
mental model of of of Ralph for people,
especially folks that haven't heard
about it since today or since the
beginning of the this podcast, you
described it as deterministically bad in
a nondeterministic world, which almost
sounds like you're saying that failure
is a feature of of of how Ralph and
these loops operate. And so I'm hoping
that you can explain to someone who's
been trained their whole life
um that code should work the first time
or you want code to like failure is a
bad thing. You know this this this this
idea that failure is a feature.
>> Yeah. Sure. Um I used to be sorry
there's a couple high level things. I
fully believe that software engineering
should be a licensed profession with
perhaps the if you work at a company uh
that's contracted to build a bridge if
that bridge collapses then that company
should get liability like like the iron
ring Canadian type topics if uh before
even AI you google can I be a software
developer the top results say yeah
anyone can be a software developer it's
so easy. But if you Google, can I be a
veterinarian? It's like, no, you got to
go study. And by the way, veterinarian
science is harder than being a doctor
for humans. And this is like the stark
difference of what we've been in. So
that's always been really boggling for
me. So that's that's the setup, right? I
still believe in that. Still believe in
that. But the way I used to approach it
was very much I'm going to make a
library and I'm going to put all this
effort that it works and I'm going to
higher control figure out how it all
works and then I've got a Lego piece and
then I got a Lego piece and I build it
mechanically piece by piece of known
good components and if something's wrong
I go look at what's wrong with that Lego
piece. I update it and the tower doesn't
top or the bridge doesn't collapse.
I now two years in see software
development fundamentally different or
software I still have the engineering
principles. I now see the context window
or the array kind of like clay on a
pottery wheel.
Right? I turn the pottery wheel on. I
sit down and say, "Hey, here is my
specifications that have been built up
through this technique of a conversation
with them."
And I use that as a pin for this like to
describe
the describe that I am building a
essentially autonomous weaving lo and
every time I do this pro process it adds
a little bit more context which frames
the the future design and when I want a
new feature I sit down hey I want to add
uh attribute based access management
Aback study all my specifications so you
can specialize etc. and let's have a
discussion about Aback interview me and
then it would go okay I'll learn about
the existing specifications and how the
application work and this has been going
from zero like there was no
specifications I just did this process
all the way up and the more that I do it
>> the uh the better
>> more context you're building the more
lesser guesses
>> about the the domain that I'm in I call
this a model first company
>> corporate doesn't have this. So I go,
hey, uh, attributebased, how should we
do this study, etc. And I was like, and
it comes back with five points. And I
go, yes, I want that to no, I want it
like this. This is where I put my
engineering in. I'm engineering the
clay. I'm engineering the clay on the
pottery wheel. And then it goes for it.
It gives me a thing like, uh,
do you want aback or arback? And I'm
like, well, I'm pretty sure I want
attribute-based access control, but I
don't know.
You can actually then have a
conversation backwards and forwards
deeper into the topic, and it will
explore and expand the topic until you
can make an informed engineering
decision. And you go, yes, I want that.
I want option C. And you zoom back out
of that. Zoom back out of that. And you
move on to the next one. And you just
keep going that. And then at the end of
this session, which is normally about 30
minutes, what you end up with is this
pretty well-formed clay on the potting
wheel, and you just keep testing it.
Does it understand what's going meant to
happen? You try it a couple times,
you're like, "Cool, it gets it right the
specs, throw it to Ralph." And like I
used to spend days thinking about the
right architecture, the shape of my
repositories and all this stuff, like
architecting XML, like UML type stuff.
I can now after that 30 minute session
get a rough cut like I do a loop by hand
like not even with Ralph allocating but
I use the principles to try to even test
it and if it if it doesn't seem right I
go back I update the specs I try it
again prototypes are now free they're
now cheap etc when I once I've got a
higher degree of understanding it's
going to produce the right outcomes then
I just go back and I let it rip and I
get a I get like something that is
workable
workable not working within an hour. You
get weeks worth of work of potentially
multiple co-workers in a couple hours.
And this is where it gets really
interesting is I still believe in
engineering. Still believe in
engineering and like the bridge
collapses that's on you.
But you know what? If it's wrong or it
misses something, I can throw it back on
the pottery wheel and I can do a a
crafted rail loop saying, "Hey, look, it
looks like there's a like you're
duplicating the like the SQL all over
the place. You're not using the
repository pattern." So, that's a
refactoring Ralph loop. Oh, you forgot
uh you forgot to internationalization.
Well, that's I'm throwing it back on the
wheel. That's a separate Ralph loop.
Refactorings are now cheap and easy. And
the interesting thing is you can
actually generalize that into uh
essentially a Roomba that automatically
vacuums your codebase and repairs and
does all these things. That way you
still have a forgetful Ralph that's
doing its thing and building features.
Doesn't mean you when I talk about a
thousand thousand uh Roombas or a
thousand like Ralph loops going.
You can have an internationalization
one. You can have a security one that
just checks for common things that the
agent forgets etc. You can automate
these things. This is a new class of
engineering. Like we've got a new
computer here folks. uh what we've had
over the last 40 years, we need to
reimagine it for the new computer.
>> Um as Ralph goes in each loop,
um and it starts fresh, obviously we
have the spec files as kind of the
foundation or that clay, right? But um
what do you lose if you lose anything?
Uh what do you throw out? Like is there
institutional knowledge that dies in
each loop?
>> Yep. Yep. And that's okay
>> because that's okay because my
institutional knowledge is in the
specifications file. So every loop I
allocate the specifications which is a
lookup table to other specifications
and that's enough to pin and reframe
each loop that like this is my domain
knowledge. This is where you should look
at certain modules. These are the
patterns that you need to follow. That's
enough because once you've done that,
you think about from that that point
forward, you give it a task and goal
implement logging. Well, how useless is
the implement logging if the logging is
you got a logging spec and then four or
five like features later that's in the
context window. It's basically that that
that array has two or three different
competing goals. And if you think about
context windows, there's an array,
sliding window, etc. And we know that
the more you use an array, the context
window, the dumber it gets and then you
get stuff like compaction. But what
happens if compaction removes the pin
the specifications
and then it starts making stuff up? So
it's really simple. Avoid compaction at
all costs. Deterministically allocate
the description of your application so
we could use it as a lookup source and
then pick one.
Okay.
So now I want to move on to
more spicy
um subjects and those are essentially
how we look at the industry. So you've
been very vocal about um
essentially not hiring any junior or
mid-level even software engineers which
is terrifying right um as as just a
statement. So you're saying essentially
that entry level path into software
engineering is closing?
>> Yeah, it it closed for a while. It
closed for a while. Uh
um I was at Camber. The doors shut at
Campber um about a year ago for juniors
um until we figured it out how we're
going to interview again.
And then we opened it back up again once
we figured out how we're going to
interview again. like I mean like how do
we identify someone that's been curious?
Um it is very important to raise the
next generation
of software engineers who think like
software engineers. It is still really
an unsolved thing how we raise that next
generation. You need to completely
replenish that pool and we I believe
firmly in apprenticeship.
Having said that, there is a hard line
coming folks. There's a hard line
coming. If you're only just picking up
the tools today after Opus because you
finally discovered that it's great.
Understand that uh a lot of my writing
and research it got syndicated with the
prime gen like six, seven months ago to
an article that was just, "Hey folks,
hey juniors, pay attention. You're
screwed unless you pay attention here
and invest in yourselves. And that kind
of popped off and I started writing like
how to build a coding age and and
teaching the new compsai fundamentals of
like inferencing loop etc. I think
that's like 4.5 or 5ks on git github
which is great right. So we now have
essentially at least six or seven
months, like half a cohort of juniors
who
will work at a quarter of the wage that
a senior software engineers on because
they're young, they're juniors.
And it's not just they like it's not
that they're working with these
particular tools. They they found
discoveries. They found that like
you can have you can drive loops that
automatically copy and paste. Like for
example, an example of a loop would be a
workflow loop. Um I know that I can
create uh I can drive the model to using
T-Max. And then once you command it to
use T-max, it will automatically scrape
the PES and copy and paste that into
loop back. So I no longer need to be at
the computer as much because I've
automated that that loop back. Another
classic loop back is like use the GitHub
CLI to automatically resolve the CI
failures for this pull request and it
just does it. And it's that knowing of
the techniques once you make that
discovery that's your edge that's your
advantage. So we got juniors now six
months playing and making these
discoveries of loop backs etc. If you're
just starting now, you you you've you
think you've got it. No, there is a lot
of knowledge that you have to learn and
techniques and this is becoming AI
native software engineering.
>> Yeah.
>> And
if I may
offer some resistance to that. One of
the things that I see though is that
where a junior could learn some of these
ideas and explain how to code already
with tools like cursor and now playing
with Ralph and so forth, a senior from
what we've seen at least and from what
I've seen can can have so much more
resistance to um offloading ownership
and and and leaving kind of the old
engineering practices behind. not even
seeing a paper today that senior
engineers like to maintain ownership of
of code and the practice and the agent,
right? Whereas what we're discussing now
with Ralph is screw ownership. Here's
the spec, go build it, do it in parallel
and whatever you do, just get there,
[laughter] right? And so I my hope is
that as we get you know farther into the
future let's I can agree with you if and
anyone is learning how to code and does
not take this into consideration yeah
it's going to have a hard time but if
they are it's they don't learn the old
vices so to speak. Does that make sense?
>> Yep. Um let's play let's play with this.
Okay. So
these tools in the hands of a junior is
uh dangerous. It's kind of like a
woodworking shop. Like they they don't
have the experience to know how a table
saw can take your finger off and they
don't have the stories etc. So you need
to supervise them. You need to mentor
them. Like you're your the workshop
supervisor in your high school and your
supervising your class. You can't use a
lathe until you don't have a tie, no
high hair. like it doesn't care about
taking a finger off or strangling you,
right? And a junior won't really have
some of these domain knowledge of like
how to be an engineer. I think that's
our opportunity. But if you got an if
you got a junior who's learning these
concepts, they're so much more mentable,
mentorable, and a shorefire bet than
someone who doesn't have that. So that
that's that's the difference. Now on for
the senior side of things. Well, what
happens uh what happens when
a companies commit graphs like that? Not
that commits is is the the right uh
measurement here, but like commit like
grips like that for the high performers.
And what happens when the high
performers are basically the leadership
team and they're discovering
Ralph and they can run their
organization
just the three of them and the rest
theorg commit velocity and product
velocity is like that the team's like
that that's like that I my deepest fear
is people think they've got time no the
unit economics of software development
is forever changed you need less humans.
So the way I look at it is AI is a is an
amplifier of operator skill. It
amplifies the knowledge that you have.
If you're really good at security,
really good, you got that brain and
thinking about like when I get hacked,
what is the blast radius and like really
thinking about these things and then
thinking about gadgets and the widgets
that is amazing. If they get curious and
they get really good at AI, they they
turn into an absolute weapon with it.
And this is the same with in any
discipline,
accounting, like legal,
software engineering, etc. This is the
new thing is like actually being
curious, playing with it, and then
automating your job function.
Now, if an engineer is like, "Oh, no,
whatever." Uh, like I I I I I see online
and I I can't believe I read this last
night. There are really respected
software engineers that I respect in
their craft taking a hardline stand. No,
I would never use AI because that is
fascist. Fascism. That's installing
fascism in your codebase. I can't
believe that stuff from 2019. someone is
going to take such a hardline stance and
not going to make it in that sense that
like their commit velocity is like that
product velocity like that founders are
learning they're going hm why would we
pay the payroll of that person we're we
we'reing now and that's why really one
of my concerns like you can send down
ladders etc um but there's a hard line
there's a hard line coming
>> yeah um
>> just because you don't feel it in your
current company doesn't mean it's
coming.
>> It it's not real. I understand. Um
I want to explore that idea of skill of
AI. So um that distinguish um that idea
that separates between someone that is
skilled using AI native flows or
thinking with AI uh visav someone that
is unskilled. What do you think makes
someone um skilled in AI assisted
development? Um,
>> it's the discoveries. It's the
discovery.
You can
>> you can go to my YouTube channel. You
can learn how to Ralph. You can learn
how to do specs and P. You can go back
to the GitHub next research about specs
and P which kicked this entire thing
off. I haven't actually seen them
properly cited for this research to be
honest. But it's the knowing of the
tricks. If you pick up the guitar and
you play it like this in a particular
way, that's C note. like it some of
these things don't actually have
language or terms to them. We're
inventing the terms for the new computer
every day and we're trying to get
consensus of this. So it makes it really
even really hard to actually teach these
things. But the main thing I can talk
about is closing the loop and looking
for opportunities to automatically copy
and paste in the context window. It's
it's I feels like I'm at my I'm I'm
picking up my first computer again. I'm
picking up my first computer again. This
is a brand new computer and with this
new computer you can start think someone
who's like far along the journey sees
this is some of the most exciting times
and we can reimagine what the new
computer is and because the how the last
40 years until we get from here to there
to where we are now it was everything
all the design decisions were for humans
like why do we have a TTY well so the
human operator on the main frame could
type. Why do we have environment
variables? Well, the human need to
configure an environment variable. Like,
and then you start going, wow, Unix is
based on 40 decision 40 years of
decisions for humans. We got robots now.
What's the bare minimum robot needs? And
then you start thinking, well, what
about uh what about programming
languages? We never used to break do
breaking changes and we used to be very
slow in our pace of language development
because we would break humans and their
mental model etc. Well, what happens if
uh programming languages start raling by
default and their velocity is like that?
I no committees, none of this garbage.
They just just go here it is. You want
high guided types and rust? There it is.
Like a breaking change is now cheap and
free because free compared to what it
used to be because you just run a raft
loop to automigrate the codebase. you
can just publish an auto migration
script and so you don't the back compad
and all that's really changed. Um all
those concerns really changed. So this
the skill level is really the
discoveries of loop backs and this
there's a new mindset. Um
>> meanwh people would be like if they're
just using cursor to like ship their
their things etc. They might be not
picking on picking up why some of the
biggest names in compsai have come out
of retirement.
Like why are they excited? Learn why
they're excited is what I'm talking
about. We've got a new computer. We can
dream what the new computer is. We're
we're building the new computer every
day.
>> And and and so in that example of guitar
learning, when you're a teenager, you
have what feels like infinite time for
you to, you know, play and explore. But
what would you say to that um mid-career
engineer with a mortgage and kids? Where
do they find time for that deliberate
practice?
>> You just make it happen. I've got kids,
right? Um I like to describe this as
we got this magic space us that allows
you to teleport to the future and steal
and rob your retirement plan from
yourself. What are all the ideas you're
going to do when you retire? Do it now.
You can do it now. Like the idea of
making a programming language or a Game
Boy emulator or even a damn operating
system. Like I started doing Ralphing an
operating system and I just stopped.
Like okay, I've done enough novelty
stuff. I've done a programming language.
I I definitely can do an operating
system. Well, actually one of the mono
uh one of the the mono engineers behind
Zamron, they built an operating system
over Christmas
>> uh using these techniques. So,
uh you make the time and understand
it can build while you're away from the
computer. So, the amount of time the old
this I've got to spend eight like ah
I've got to spend 60 hours to learn this
new thing and new program. I don't have
time.
That doesn't make sense anymore.
That doesn't make sense anymore. You can
just like pick it up for 30 minutes and
try different things. You can discover
new techniques. So, just pick it up for
30 minutes, put it down. Pick it up, put
it down. Don't watch some Netflix. Just
like pick up the guitar. You'll know.
You'll know if you'll know when you
truly get it. Why all the compsai
people are out of retirement? Because if
you have trouble sleeping because you
you're so excited about what you can now
build, you get it. You really truly get
it because you can teleport to the
future, build all the things you've
always wanted to do, but you never had
time to. You can do it now.
>> Right now.
>> You haven't been be able to do it for
the last year. So, you make the time.
Now the interesting question if we split
that is you're a midlevel software
engineer and you're like there's no way
what Jeff is talking about is real
because I don't see it around me.
Everyone around me doesn't see it
doesn't get it. No one else gets it.
>> Well I hate hate to put it forward to
you but like there'll be a time when you
you'll be an I like a like you'll be
teleporting to the future and
implementing all your things that you
will get it so hard you won't be able to
tolerate people who don't get it.
So, you'll seek to be around other
like-minded people and you'll understand
the rising tide here and the rift that's
forming and you'll go seek to join a
model first company of those who see it.
Um, so if a if your company's outright
banned AI, well, the only time you can
get good at AI is at home. That sucks.
The perfect place is that you play with
it at home. You make a discovery and you
play it at work. At work you play
discovery, you play it at home. You got
this loop going on, etc.
Um,
for any for any other big corporate type
thing, it could be like three four years
of a agile transformation program. They
roll in essential coaches that teaches
everyone this is how you do
>> AI engineering etc. It's already
happening. But like seriously, what's
the quality of those agile coaches? AI
like
>> No, they're outdated by definition. By
by the time they create a programs, you
wait a week and it's already outdated.
>> It's gone. It's gone. It's gone. Like I
there's probably
five to six people in the world that I
rate as brilliant. Like that's the pool
is really small
>> and we're all sitting in WhatsApp groups
like riffing each other's on
>> um sharing ideas like you go do that
>> like I've got folks who are just that
like let's get rid of agent user space
what's a user what does agent space look
like in Unix they're exploring that
these are low-level engineers thinking
how much of the operating system can we
cut
>> and they
Yeah, they're heading that way. I'm I'm
looking at
>> can I have an automated software
development, automated weaving loom?
What are the software engineering
practices that no longer make sense? Why
do we have CI? Why do we do code review?
>> Like
>> question,
>> questioning everything. Questioning
everything. And they're doing the
opposite for low-level computer
internals.
>> Wow.
>> Um so it's it's really strange. Um my
biggest concern is in these corporate
transformation programs is it's going to
be three or four years where they do the
transformation. You might feel that
you're safe, right? But what happens if
that corporate you're in is 5,000
employees. They've raised a large amount
of capital and the unit economics
changed on that company like software
development is now cheap. they've
overhired software engineers
or over people before AI and you're
working at the company, you're doing the
transformation, you might think it's
going really well. What happens when
there's a couple people uh that just in
their 20s, they go to Bali and they run
the Z80 and Ralph and instead of
charging $100,000 a month for the
enterprise SAS,
>> they go after they go after your
product. Yeah. that go after your
product and they charge $1,000 a month
and they can turn things around faster
than the bigger wall. We all know
smaller teams ship faster
um because there's less hierarchy.
>> So I'm very concerned it's going to be
kind of like a Titanic moment.
>> Sorry, the boat is full. Get the next
boat.
>> Yeah. Uh,
>> so we're we're we're on time for
questions, but I want to just get one
final one in from from my side because
the conversation has been so um
entertaining and valuable. Um,
what would have to happen for you to
conclude that AIS development is
overhyped? What's the what what would be
the thing that you'd say, "Yeah, I was
wrong about the timeline or I was wrong
about the magnitude of change." Or what
would have to be true in order for you
to make that statement?
It's a fantastic question. Um, I
originally was the person that was
hardlining, but AI is hype and everyone
that turned up uh, talking to AI was
pretty amazing. I just wrote him off as
a shill. I just wrote him off as a
shill. That used to be me.
What was really happening is that person
was genuinely concerned that yeah it's
getting good and they were trying to
communicate to me yeah it's getting
good. Um, it took a conversation with a
founder talking about like the unit
dynamics of businesses changing and the
bar and need to get back on the tools
for me to go, oh [ __ ] right? And then I
could see that a slope on slope
improvement of the capability and the
skill level needed to do things would I
thought that would be like a safety net
like opus. Every time the model gets
better, the skill level to drive these
things is just getting easier and
easier. So you got these random people
on YouTube going, "Yo, check out Ralph
Loop and Anthropic is taking these these
concepts and made them super
accessible."
So I guess uh I was wrong about the time
frame. I thought that like when I showed
Ralph Loop about six months ago and
published it, people would get it. Maybe
I could have done better in teaching it
etc.
Um the people in San Fran I showed it to
they got it immediately at the meetup
because they can they they're used to
thinking in exponentials and they're
deep in the San Fran culture. Um I
presented that and it was gez we spent
like an hour after the presentation and
we were just going [ __ ] what does it
mean now? What does it mean to be a
founder etc. That was six months ago and
then then then they got showed in Y
Combinator
demoed internally in Y Combinator and
there's like half a batch now or have
been raaling for six months. So like
this entire notion of couple people in
Bali
going after the corporates that don't
transform fast enough. It's it's real
folks. It's real.
>> They're going to get ralphed.
>> They're gonna get Ralph. Their actual
business model is going to get raled by
Ralph.
Um, so I guess I was wrong. Uh, I would
have expected it to happen kind of
sooner. I still potentially see maybe AI
as a as a bubble, right?
Um, a lot of these labs are lighting
money on fire. I do not deny that. But
at the same time, I cannot it'll be it
would be a false equivalence to say that
I for the last year I've been writing
software while I sleep. Like yeah, like
that's that's pretty crazy proof. And
then when you got the social proof of
like all these YouTube videos of
non-software developers that would
normally go to to lovable just
installing claw code and implementing
the wildest dreams. So maybe it's how
can you still say it's a bubble? There's
actually economic utility coming now and
founders are starting to go well let's
rethink about our business plan now.
Maybe one of these front frontier labs
explodes because they light too much
money on fire. That's none of our
concerns. We have open-source models
that can run on local hardware. will
probably have opus level intelligence
that can run on local hardware if you've
got the hardware at home within the next
six months. Right? If they if they go
boom, so what? So what? We're not going
back. I'm not c crafting code by hand.
We got a CNC machine.
There's no way I'm going back. Like
we've gone from essentially uh carrying
carrying cargo by hand to we've now have
a locomotive that just goes and our job
now is to be locomotive engineers to
keep the train on the tracks and to
build the tracks etc. Um and to be
engineers because there's no going back
once you got a locomotive and that
automates things for you. So I guess I I
could be wrong on many things. I think
what I'd like really pass on is as
certain as I am on these topics, I don't
bloody know. And I think anyone who says
that they know is selling you horseshit.
Like I've sat for the last year figuring
out where and how product will go in in
all these scenarios after the discovery.
Um and game up where it goes. So, I've
got a kind of idea what the shape of
like the the the tree and the structure
of how it could go, but everyone says
all these absolutes.
Um,
yeah, there's there is no knowing.
Please understand there's a brand new
computer. And if you aren't excited as I
am about a new computer and you're like,
"Wow, what is this?" and like doing
invention discovery.
Uh it's it's time to it's time to start
picking up the guitar and playing.
>> And that's a great segue to to open you
up the questions to our audience. We
have already have a number of them.
Please do post. We'll have nine minutes,
but we'll try to get as many as we can.
So Andrew asks, "Does the current RA
loop within cloud code plugins ecosystem
actually start with the free context
window after each task?" Uh my adviser
said there was an additional script to
get it to perform as such.
>> Yeah. So have a look at the
implementation. Have a look at the what
I my video on YouTube which where I
teach how I build my specifications and
PDs. I see a lot of people saying, "Oh,
Ralph loop will never work because I got
to spend all this time writing
specifications." I codegen all my
specifications.
So, for the internals uh of uh for of
that um watch my video, run an agent
over that implementation and compare
those notes together. This is this is
one of the things you can actually this
is one of the techniques. Um you can ask
these questions and it's a very good
question but this is now what I would
normally use Ralph for like I get an
academic paper and I instead of spending
three or four days to read and find that
information. I run a Ralph loop to
replicate the research. I do a prompt
split this 100page PDF in compsite or in
ML and uh convert that to markdown and
give me a working prototype because I
feel I think and feel in code. I need to
see it in code. Now I can do that. So
the main thing is that it you could do
the cord code plugin etc. and all the
differences we can focus on that that's
missing the bigger picture. This is an
orchestrator pattern
that could orchestrate thousands of
claude codes.
That's where we're going. This is where
Yagi has been going, "Welcome to Gas
Town. Welcome to Gas Town." Because the
orchestrator can make intelligent
decisions. This is you could maybe call
the orchestrator Lisa
or Milhouse.
And it it tells it tells Ralph what to
do. And it can be hyperpersonalized. You
need to anytime internationalization
happens, you need a route loop to make
sure all the things internationalized.
If you're still thinking like I can just
use claude code oneonone, you're missing
the bigger picture here. We have an
automation primitive.
You need to be thinking about how I can
automate your your job function. Um, so
you can do the plugin and if you do the
plugin, you're going to be doing so much
more productivity and output than
everyone else. Just understand there are
people like me who are thinking about
robots and robots and robots and loops
on loops and loops and there are other
people since the publication they are
building the Lisa building the millhouse
and they're thinking about this as
essentially a a a Roomba and they want
to be programming the Roombas to
automate their things. So it is
important to have a brand new context
window and people playing either way.
I'm very friendly with the anthropic
team. Um I'm completely neutral to them
like like they don't pay me any money or
what else have you. Um and I'm very
thankful um what for what they've done
in making this more accessible. But if
you're just using the anthropic plug-in,
you're a consumer. You're a software
engineer, aren't you? If you just got to
consume the thing and understand how it
works, you're just going to be consumer.
Yeah. sure you'll make the cut. Um, but
like the rewards go to the people who
are the engineers who automate their job
function with AI.
>> And to do that, you need to be thinking
about orchestration.
>> Orchestration.
>> Um, a user in YouTube asks, "How do you
get Ralph to rank order potential
framework/platforms you're evaluating
while building?"
Well, this is going to be weird. So,
yes, I own a farm.
Goat farmer. Yes, I own a farm. I used
to be one of the maintainers of React
extensions. I used to be very prolific
in open source and I did an entire bend
for multiple years about getting open-
source financing and pleading companies
to like donate to maintainers etc. Maybe
we can change the world if we support
the people who support the corporates.
Um, and like the the settlement of my
land, like the property conveyancing
fees were all funded by Open Collective.
That's the setup
to this. I no longer use open source
anymore.
None.
Because think about the problems of open
source. If there's a bug, you got to
open a pull request. You got to go chase
a human. You got to inject a human into
the loop. [laughter]
anytime you anytime you tool call a
human that's not AGI that's not Ralph
so it is much easier now to codegenerate
everything I got a blog post about this
is what even is the point of open source
now that you can code generate it now
you wouldn't necessarily generate
cryptography libraries like PKI I have
but I wouldn't put it in production
because that I couldn't stand by my
engineering bar you know what there's
got to be a PKI engineer who Ralphs and
understands the domain and go that was
amazing and that is safe right so
there's got to be these lines and you
got to re-evaluate the lines of what you
will generate and won't generate so if
you're thinking about frameworks you
missing the entire point unfortunately
and I say that with absolute care you
actually need to rethink about things
now like how do I not have humans in the
loop
Frameworks no longer matter. We made
frameworks to make it easier to hire for
humans.
Like React, cool. We want two years
React experience.
Is that is that still true? Is that
still true? Um and it gets really weird.
So you can actually just make a
framework like that. Or maybe you don't
even need frameworks. Um, I definitely
there they're boundaries and lines like
I'm not saying that we should go like
ignore Ruby and Rails. It's in the
training corpus and it does it really
well. So still use Ruby and Rails,
right? I'm not saying that we should get
rid of React. Use uh maybe you just stay
with React or Next.js because it's in
the training data. It does it really
well and you're going to get better
outcomes. However, what about the
libraries in React or Ruby on Rails and
all that? Instead of installing those
gems or those mpm dependencies, just
codegenerate them. So you have like a
stable base and heart of the framework
and then everything else is code
generated or you approach this from
first principles and go I just got to do
the entire thing. I like rebuilding
engines. It's now possible to rebuild an
engine just from an idea.
So um
frameworks I guess the there there's
something I've been thinking about
programming languages. There are if
you're like there is like a a tier list
of programming languages. Um, I like to
see uh unfortunately
um F tier is Java and .NET to me
>> and and for reference uh there's 600
people on social media that the official
Microsoft.NET account follows. I'm one
of them. I did a lot innet. I'm not
saying this cuz I hate it because the
way that these coding agents works the
search tool is uses the bash tool to
execute rip grip or grap and that
discovers a function signature or what
else have you
things like node modules
uh things like node modules we used to
joke about like it used to be the the
weight of the black hole
well because it's sourcebased not a dl
new get and net is dl ripget can run
really well natively
But if you want to get that type of
stuff going innet,
you have to do these crazy context
engineering type things and all these
other things that other program
languages get by default.
>> So what makes something F tier? What
make what makes something S tier? uh
anything that's source-based
uh with strong type systems that uh
reject uh anything that's source-based
uh that with strong type systems so we
can run rip gre through it and the type
systems reject invalid generations so
typescript goes very hard
>> uh
>> can you name one one S tier what what
would be one that you name
>> Rust is amazing
>> rust is amazing
Uh pi python is so so but when you drive
it with pantic with that knowledge you
should use pyantic it's definitely s
tier
>> typescript is really good as well uh s
tier if you do typescript with effect js
wow
>> okay
>> because that's taking the idea of effect
programming and making it very
accessible which makes things very
testable
>> incredibly testable
>> um but there is there are trade-offs
like rust the compilation speed on rust
is very very very slow. Very very very
slow.
>> Yeah. So those are all trade-offs. Yeah.
>> The trade-off if the compilation takes
forever. What happens if uh it does an
invalid generation or hallucination and
the compilation takes 30 minutes? Well,
you compare that against say like
TypeScript in that time how many
generations is it done? Because it will
the generative function will be bad. So
you if you if you do choose Rust or C++
or what else have you, you got to you
got to be an engineer and make that back
pressure fast.
>> Yeah, we got to do a bullet round
because we're already on time. So we got
to do very quick answers to some of
these questions so we can address them.
Very quick one. How do how will you
implement Ralph on an existing codebase
from Stallion?
Um, it's really hard to give broadlevel
guidance.
Um, because Ralph is essentially
unleashing an autonomous junior engineer
with a kitchen knife. Like it actually
can be quite dangerous. Um, an existing
code base. Hopefully you got tests.
Hopefully you got tests. Okay. Most
enterprise stuff I've come across
doesn't have tests. So maybe don't even
think about it. Remember the Joel
Spotsky thing, things you should never
do, which is rewrite Netscape. I think
that's now falsified. It might be easier
to rebuild the application from scratch
with specs with the techniques than it
is to adapt the existing codebase.
Um it's this is what like try it. Just
try it. So the first thing you do is you
need to be creating the back pressure
which is the uh doing the tests and
making the maintainability. The next
thing is you should be thinking about
sandboxing. Can your application run in
a sandbox a docker container and all the
rest. If you can't do that then don't
even bother. Rewrite it. Um
um then you start uh then you start
building uh the specification library.
you can run Ralph in reverse on your
existing codebase to generate the specs
from like the Z80 and then you critique
that and maybe you can bootstrap your
project. Um, just know that you're going
to be going through a lot of pain to try
to fit the old world in with the new
world and you're going to be dealing
with people problems like I want
Hungarian, I want snake case, I want
Pascal case, all that's just noise now,
folks like what they go, oh AI doesn't
create maintainable code for who? Why
are humans the benchmark? If you can rip
another agent through the codebase and
it can like add the Aback things that
miss and identify all that stuff, why
are humans the standard for
maintainability? So I would try to
generate the specs going in reverse, but
it's it's hard to create
>> it's hard to create broad guidance on
this thing.
>> Yeah,
>> it's it's
right.
Do you agree with that the concept of
shareware has returned?
I don't know. I think we're in a Geio
Cities moment. Like we're back to
Commodore 64s. We're going to have
everyone
>> Geio Cities was such a cool moment in
the internet.
>> Yeah. Right. I think we're at the Geio
Cities moment. Like we everyone is going
to teleport to the future and in invent
all they wanted to do and they're just
going to give it away. Or maybe they
keep it to themselves. Maybe they keep
it themselves. I think we're going to
see a whole bunch of like the same way
in combo 64 is like hey mate can you
copy me that floppy like someone does
something even if they don't share the
source code or they do some
documentation whatever just that idea
that it is possible they're going to go
open like super whisper or whisper flow
and go hey that person over here had a
really good idea they describe the
features etc and they got their own copy
so yeah the topic of moes is kind of
going to disappear I think it's going to
be a beautiful time for a software
engineer But as software development
that that profession is now closed.
>> Yeah.
>> Because it's been replaced with a RA
loop.
[laughter]
>> And I guess one final question just to
end up from YouTube. Would it be fair to
say that we are seeing in software
engineering now will be true for most
fields requiring creativity as well as
the defined process such as finance, law
or manufacturing?
>> I don't know. Let's play let's play with
it. I don't know. I think so. The reason
why this is happening so much in our
profession is we can be mechanically
verified. So if if you think about I've
talked about the the wheel of the notion
of wheel. So you have a generative
function
and then you got the bottom half of the
wheel which is the back pressure. The
back pressure if it generates something
wrong the test pushes back on the
generative function to try again before
the wheels allowed to turn around.
Any discipline where you can do that
is going to be automated and that's
absolutely certain when you can
mechanically verify it's going to be
automated. Now I guess what is the
failure rate for humans if it can't be
autom automated? Let's say you take a a
lawyer
um what happens if a parallegal makes
mistakes. What if the LLM the LLM
definitely will make mistakes? What if
the error rate on LLM is less than the
rate of a human and and they're already
used to the idea of failure? And that's
why they have three or four different
people read a contract before it goes
out. So like this is how I I would I've
never worked in the legal profession,
but this would be the approach I would
take in a legal profession. What I would
do is I would build a whole bunch of
like common red lines
uh uh clauses in a contract like
underlines things that you want to keep
out an eye out for and I'll turn them
into test cases
and I'll keep those contracts around and
I make sure when I change a model this
is eval like it detects these type of
test cases doesn't be have to be 100%
needs to be 90 80%.
does you get used to the failure because
like even in biology, humans, it's never
been like 100%. It's been random chaos.
Um and then when a new contract comes
in, you have a look, did it detect it?
Oh, wow. We've got to speed up. We got
to speed up. And you can never outsource
accountability to a machine that's
always on the human. But what happens
when a lawyer slashgineer, lawyer,
engineer, they exist out there? They're
both lawyers and engineers take these
types of approaches and they start
instead of having to look for this,
they're actually building up a linting
library
>> for law.
>> They're building up a static analyzer
library for law. This is this is the
approach I would take. I would not be
surprised if they take this approach as
well.
>> And so that their burden is a lot less.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool. Um folks, we're on time. Um, this
has been a fascinating conversation.
Truly worthy of a start of the year in
season two of AI Giants. Jeeoff, I'm so
thankful for you accepting the
invitation. Thank you for your candid,
honest uh very truthful um type of of
dialogue that we had here today and for
answering these some some of these tough
questions and answer also questions from
the audience. Thanks for being here.
>> No problem. Thanks for having me on. Um,
as common as I might be, I don't know.
Um, but one thing's for sure, I'm not
going to be stuck like a deer in the
headlights while this goes on. I'll wait
for the next model to get good at this.
I hope people who watch this, go out
there. I've got a a workshop that
teaches you how to build an agent. This
is now the baseline fluency. If we ever
cross paths and you and I'm
interviewing, I want you to be able to
explain that on a whiteboard. I'm making
it very clear what the the new lines are
and I hope uh people invest in
themselves because I want to increase
the pool and the mo of the people who
can actually use the new computer.
>> Wonderful.
Um great. Well, folks, today we looked
behind um the scenes at the origin story
of Ralph with the great Jeffrey Huntley.
Uh fascinating conversation. I hope you
had as much fun as I had. As always, we
at Coty uh we are an intend solution for
building products safely. Um next week,
uh we are joined by the CTO of Versel.
So, please don't miss out. Um and with
that, have a wonderful rest of your week
and thank you for being here and for all
your questions. See you guys. See you.
