[music]
Well, hi viewers. Uh, we are today at
Sonama district at Frontier Tubbers and
for the AI people, we have the pleasure
of interviewing Jeff. Jeff is a pioneer
in the software industry, he has some
strong point of view on the future of
software and he's been driving a lot of
innovation around agent AI. Jeff, why
don't you introduce yourself and we can
get right in.
>> Hey folks, um, I'm Jeff Huntley. I've
been in San Fran now for the last 5
days. Tomorrow I'm over to New York.
Some people might know me as the guy who
created the Ralph Wigum loop which is a
memory management technique when if you
put it in a bash loop it can get some
pretty disruptive outcomes. Uh we
measured it uh to be around about $1042
an hour uh is the cost of software
development. Now now there's a big
difference between software development
and software engineering.
>> Okay. So software development you are
saying uh is getting accelerated but
there is a lot of scope for software
engineering uh to make sure that all
this accelerated software development
sees the light of the day
>> practical outcome let's get to
definition or terms
>> okay
>> um engineering has always been different
to software development
>> now there are a lot of people who have
their identity functions of being a
software developer
now if you have your identity as a
software developer. Well, guess what?
The hairdresser down the street using
cursor is now a software developer.
>> So, there's some real questions to what
it means when we've gone from a
knowledge scarcity
>> economy to where it's ubiquitous. Anyone
can just prompt for the right outcomes.
There's going to be people out there
like writing courses or teaching or like
what the right things to prompt into LM
to get really good outcomes. So, if
you're still there typing on a keyboard,
uh it's pretty
not a good time to be still typing on
the keyboard. Now, there's a difference
between typing on the keyboard and being
a software developer and being an
engineer.
>> Mhm.
>> So, I'd like to put forward an argument
that there we're locomotive engineers
now.
>> Mhm.
>> And it's our job to keep the train on
the train tracks. So we should be
working on the we should be working on
the business not in the business.
>> Meaning we should be designing these
loops and automations
and engineering
the safety like to keep the train from
derailing. You can go into security
incidents. You can talk about making
sure that you don't provision the right
you do sandboxing the credentials
figuring out how that we get rid how do
we get rid of code review? Do we get rid
of code review? Should we like really
engineering thinking along the ways that
we've got this brand new
way of doing things really fast? What is
the responsible way to utilize this?
>> Mhm.
>> Because the old typing software on a
keyboard is gone.
>> Great. Um, I guess for anyone watching
this, if your employer has banned usage
of AI, you should leave your employer
right now. There is a big difference
between There's a big difference between
uh business suicide and uh employability
suicide. Okay, big big difference. You
trade time and skill for money.
Uh and the market for people who just
type on a keyboard is rapidly
diminishing really fast.
>> Mhm.
>> So you should go to somewhere where you
can keep your skills current.
>> Okay.
>> So software engineering in your opinion
is it more of a people skill or is it
more of a raw technical skill?
>> Raw technical cognitive skill. Like if
the idea of running no code review in
your codebase makes you want a Ralph to
vomit, you should listen to that. What
you should do instead is engineer away
all your concerns
like like what happens if it if it was
to automatically do a migration like
type thing. Oh, cool. Engineer that
away. Maybe code review can be solved by
not being a binary tickbox. Yes. No. But
you can have a implement a riskbased
approach. You can auto ship things into
production
>> if it doesn't involve a database schema
change or maybe it automatically does
that because you've engineed in in
feature flags automatically. So the
blast radius is constrained like
actually engineering around risk and new
practices around these new new
technologies.
>> Gotcha. Okay. And I I know I heard you
say open source is dead. So I want to
double click on that and uh learn more
about it.
>> Yeah, sure. Um I wrote something about
eight months ago saying what's the point
of software open source software if you
can just generate it.
>> Um and it's becoming true and truer
every day. Uh the reason that we had
libraries, open source libraries was
essentially it made hiring easier. The
reason we got React and uh React and all
these other things was to expedite
hiring of people. But I would like to
put forward that uh who here has been
with open source and like a maintainer
has been on holidays
and there's a bug on GitHub. So you got
to open a GitHub issue and you got a
nag, next thing you know get cancelled
whatever open source maintainer burns
out. All these things open source is
being put up on this pedestal and
consumed by businesses and under
supported by businesses for a very long
time. This is called the open source
funding crisis.
Now I put forward that uh potentially a
solve for this if you want to really get
into software automation.
Well, what you can do is just generate
the software. You can literally just
generate the software. There are
boundaries of acceptability where it's
not appropriate to generate software.
Think about topics like PKI and SSL.
Well, if you're a PKI SSL person,
completely responsible to do you know
what is true. But like think about how
much time is consumed from dependabot
updates. Think about all the supply
chain attacks that happen through
MPM bad packages takeovers yada yada all
the rest. Think of all the time that's
taken. So we've been pleading for for
people to take control of the supply
chain for the longest time. For the
longest longest time and uh the the
fangs have always just they third
partied software. They take the open
source software and they take complete
control of their source their their
uh supply chain by vendoring it.
>> Well, how about you just generate it?
>> Yeah,
>> how about you just generate it? So, I've
been generating all my source code now
for around about a year and a half. And
then I found a commonality that people
who are really getting in on this stuff,
they've come to the realization that
there's open source there is no real
point because if you have to open a
GitHub issue or what else have you,
you're tool calling a human and anytime
you need a tool call a human that's not
AGI. Yeah. And if you have the source
code first party, then you can
continually evolve it at a pace that is
much faster than your competition that's
waiting for some person who's on holiday
who might be burnt out or maybe
abandoned the project to actually
respond to GitHub issue.
>> Yeah. So we we live in a era where it's
a it's an abandoned era and all these
software companies make money out of
scarcity. Yep.
>> Something differentiating that they
offer to the market. So how do you see
abundance and scarcity uh play together
in in the coming few years and where do
you see the software industry heading?
>> I would say uh folks uh have a look at
my uh blog post on guntley.com
for uh software development now cost $10
an hour. It gets into this in a very
deep level. Uh I think the most pressing
issue is is software still investable?
Is there actually a market for investing
in software now?
>> Yeah.
>> What are the modes? The
>> VCs are all like
>> and all these like it started around
about December for me. I I started
having GPS at VCs give me a call and go,
"Hey, I'm not even sure what to tell my
illpiece. Like, is there actually a moat
in this anymore?"
>> What is your moat? Is that a question
that is relevant anymore? with that's
that's an upstream like fundraising
question not a downstream like when it's
the money's in an invested company
>> and I've fortunate to have been here for
the last week and in that I've
conversation is going all around the
valley right now
>> and that's an upstream thing about
funding like can you raise funding and
can you just responsibly deploy that
funding and that's not even getting into
the meta of like once you've received
funding like what is your moat? It's a
it's a bigger upstream problem that
needs to be figured out. So I've divided
the world really now into
uh two categories. Something is either a
utility like water, electricity, gas,
>> petrol
and it's hyper commodity. You got many
choices of electricity companies to go
to to get electricity. Hyper commodity
web hosting hyper commodity, right?
and things I can take screenshots of and
ask Claude code to reimplement for me.
It's is that brutal. I'm not saying that
everyone is going to do this, but we're
enter into into an era of
hyperpersonalized software.
So, it is
what is a moat that the idea that it was
very hard to transition from one
technology to the next a database. I ran
a loop that migrated me from Cloudflare
D1 over to planet scale Postgress
automatically including data migrations.
When have you ever heard of like tech
like an application been like from that
to that and fully auto? What the hell?
Like like so any form of this notion of
coupling and vendor lock in being a
thing isn't a thing anymore.
>> Makes sense.
>> So what is a mo it's it's contracts.
It's stakes and it's stakes and
handshakes. It's the relationships. It's
all the hard things of business.
Um but it's everything has fundamentally
changed cuz the unit economics of
software is forever changed.
>> Great. So yeah, we live in a brave new
world and uh the only way to stay
relevant is uh to keep running and uh be
curious and um do um listen into some of
the the podcast resources that Jeff is
making available. And um on behalf of
the AI people, I thank thank you very
much Jeff for spending some time with
us.
>> No problem. Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you. [music]
>> [music]
